---
sourceFile: "AXE5400 Pro - Tri-Band Mesh Wi-Fi 6E System - TP-Link"
exportedBy: "Kortex"
exportDate: "2026-05-20T06:50:17.251Z"
---

# AXE5400 Pro - Tri-Band Mesh Wi-Fi 6E System - TP-Link

d0f4db75-bcff-4c46-8860-4437ffd6b829

AXE5400 Pro - Tri-Band Mesh Wi-Fi 6E System - TP-Link

f5cd5618-b2fd-42ce-92e2-e4a1abbccfb0

https://www.tp-link.com/us/document/23714/

https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/notebooklm/AKXwDQFsq09RVt92UZBFfEVE-dK-89MkD7i3MDNjgLJ3qJtnqzyUJMi2R4OamBG9AJbqhdjgiTtXoI55JU4ujxEZo0g\_8G7mRTPY8P0lmB8kMjXyLpNTljvxARSan\_905JnWSBwfkWsg=w1280-h849-v0

a8d22bc5-fdfd-4936-be7c-2589e22c910f

https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/notebooklm/AKXwDQHTOJevRo6pfWEbDKBs4qIB3JP0OAWN9uiLJM9WHao4rSP5Lmy31HHTPnsNhT2\_TMyB7l7EplT8qTgv7L-qZRDclM625KU8iJED8NmaRYRglgS2ZSgLp5OJX\_8NHSx-1eBd6sGnsw=w1280-h1108-v0

368a6a86-cb67-46a2-9829-ecc42e77e670

Deco XE75 Pro

Tri-Band Mesh Wi-Fi 6E System

Superior Mesh Wi-Fi, Everywhere

MULTI-GIG INTERNET

AXE5400 Pro

https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/notebooklm/AKXwDQF9MV6vV9\_Q-ROwsnDaq1txMRX8emSoE71NN2nv9xmip2-oCJusXyEVg99V3mL6GWO9YUCSs8tMf87yB5SeC9KSvGKGutVo9d3XCEyURV40maK0pPWX6QmkDDtADfMqNFLxQLiKSA=w1280-h719-v0

1f7c1b91-6f47-404d-93ab-c0553ba96db4

https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/notebooklm/AKXwDQFsGe9738e9OK8-Xv7RaCuuOkYOKXVqJ-wJ\_ttzbyRQi3nenx3yEBQBmy\_kV8q7a8ygOftNTFWDelBjORP0TKN2-OLqMyAU6-CYzWnsFWgbh4lmFU4sT8VPSguDxXc87-xd4qMX=w1021-h1021-v0

2fc34940-fe61-4d1c-94be-12dcac729ce5

https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/notebooklm/AKXwDQGujmTtTVh5JMmg7zmbZGgnGqdJJSpxo6Ai0NugiWmqxhfTIaOHjKZoB7eFPXxfQW1fUBCbtBYtgxcR-CNEqp2WFfzBpZ\_2pXJGFm\_-OwbHDHF-coH1UtqEKIOBBWf9J9nkN1PhjA=w1021-h1021-v0

d1624668-f34e-455e-a7bf-00e23739eeb5

https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/notebooklm/AKXwDQElZviQa0XnM\_fm8TVwnYhyaEp7grlsQ2n0wtvYoxHGCnnGMyKIjFA7MDDkuhfQs\_KXD94UcrHVkOwu2tv-HhYntjNtNPikFETlOiCUv4CrUtJc9J88nO\_\_TY2oOiycHIC\_4rby=w77-h109-v0

08aff69d-0c82-4f8f-94e1-ba0acac8efe5

https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/notebooklm/AKXwDQH3SDTOOSVfiDAvjvaGmrPH7V1m2l4csymVdIEuqjrEm7Fjnoe1Dv-WcYeQSt9hY5u1yE7cOgJK0o4WSqvKq8B4580qH71Lvlsfibm1tLkCT28qVcNe1ho2zNB1JnrV9NT0htgaWw=w77-h109-v0

376b0d65-e3c2-429a-be24-dbc88b96acab

Wi-Fi Dead Zone Killer

Eliminate weak signal areas with clearer, stronger whole home Wi-Fi generated by Wi-Fi 6. No more searching around for a stable connection.△

TP-Link HomeShield

TP-Link’s premium security services keep your home network safe with cutting-edge features for network and IoT protection.\*

Seamless Roaming with One Wi-Fi Name

Deco units work together to form a unified network with a single network name. Walk through your home and stay connected with the fastest possible speeds.‡

AI-Driven Mesh, Wi-Fi Tailored to Your Home

AI-Roaming creates the ideal Mesh Wi-Fi solution with its advanced algorithms and self-learning. Your devices will seamlessly switch to another network source when necessary for the most optimal connections.

Quality of Service (QoS) Prioritize your bandwidth needs to get a faster networking experience.

Comprehensive Reports Gain full statistics and insights to help you understand your home network better.

Network Protection Detect cyber threats to keep your privacy and connected devices well protected.

Parental Controls Manage online time and block inappropriate content to maintain healthy online habits.

TP-Link  AXE5400 Tri-Band Mesh Wi-Fi 6E System  Deco XE75 Pro

Deco XE75 Pro Tri-Band Wi-Fi 6E TP-Link Mesh Technology + += HomeShield

574 Mbps on 2.4 GHz 2402 Mbps on 5 GHz

2402 Mbps on 6 GHz

Huge Leap Forward for Wi-Fi

Robust High-Speed Connections Experience ultra-fast Wi-Fi with more connected devices thanks to the brand-new 6 GHz band. The added 160 MHz channels prevent competition over bandwidth and drops in speed.

Clean and Congestion-Free Create an open and clear Wi-Fi network thanks to the brand-new 6 GHz band eliminating interference from legacy devices. The 6GHz band provides strong backhaul and also benefits the overall Wi-Fi performance of all non-6E devices.

Superior Mesh Wi-Fi,  Everywhere

Backwards Compatible

Supports all Wi-Fi generations and devices\*\*NAC

https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/notebooklm/AKXwDQGWctSNUJ1UTHxlqudduKQewqcdbdvgvhlwhDRH\_nXOPHXy4SSeV43rS6k-pXv3r-lNziTxrmC99H7fvQmWemGPLo4eASP-ZWOGL6TRvfI\_mAtsPk2XDVywT9Wg9XWoyLQAhanHLg=w1280-h800-v0

02fa2a9b-dccd-4fdd-8e1e-03d44f632807

TP-Link  AXE5400 Tri-Band Mesh Wi-Fi 6E System  Deco XE75 Pro

· Compatible with All Deco Models – All Deco models can work together. Just expand Mesh Wi-Fi coverage anytime by adding more Decos

· Deco Mesh Technology  – Eliminates dead zones and provides uninterrupted WiFi throughout your home

Work with All Deco Models

Form a Mesh network with your desired Deco models

· Network Protection – Detects cyber threats to keep your privacy and connected devices well protected

· Parental Controls – Manages online time and blocks inappropriate content to keep families healthy online

· Quality of Service (QoS) – Prioritizes your bandwidth needs to get a faster networking experience

· Comprehensive Reports– Gains full statistics and insights to help you know your home network better

Note: HomeShield includes the Free Basic Plan. Fees apply for the Pro Plan.

Visit https://www.tp-link/homeshield for more information.

TP-Link HomeShield

TP-Link’s premium security services keep your home network safe with cutting-edge features for network and IoT protection.§

· Auto Connection Test –  Tests the internet connection of your Decos and helps to identify a suitable location for them

· Remote Management –  Manages your Deco network from a smartphone or tablet via the app, no matter where you find yourself

· Online Upgrade – Keeps informed of the latest firmware updates

Easy Setup by Deco App

Easily set up Decos and find the ideal spot to place each unit

· Encryption for Secure Network – WPA/WPA2/WPA3 encryptions provide active protection against security threats

· Firewall – Protects your network devices from malicious attacks

· Block List – Add specific devices to Block List to protect your network from unauthorized users

Safeguard your home network with a firewall and wireless encryption

· Wireless Router Mode – Creates an instant private wireless network

· Access Point Mode – Creates Wi-Fi access for any existing wired network

Two Modes in One

Choose the Wireless Router mode or Access Point mode for your network needs

· Superior Wireless Speed – Combines wireless speeds up to 2402 Mbps over 6 GHz and 5 GHz, and 574 Mbps over 2.4 GHz

· More Devices Connected – Connects up to 200 Devices†

Wi-Fi Speed

Faster Wi-Fi speed with stronger whole home Wi-Fi generated from Wi-Fi 6E

https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/notebooklm/AKXwDQE\_jvHdUJfvO6RzzYwFQxRRVcX-VAMuKzFfB-6ltT27w7Hn1Eh2tt9Hevl35q51QzMtpdwtYMy57UFjBpyEZanaCTE1pYu8M4MhZ9lkk\_5cJXTXDhk1OwjvG-zQbeV6r-TwGfH1=w1280-h800-v0

b20a16a1-2b01-4d2e-85a1-ebb5d4b3330c

https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/notebooklm/AKXwDQHZuB0gQKYZasEsi\_pmiKh1SyV7aTvmmOTzqzO8PF1ESyEt9xi0B7QYlyQhJzdAjeZA5sZMDyCjtg3C-xW2dNyotSSipxWxuzvyy7woEf6ULG0KIyspX81jQIQzjlSYFiVrUNf2kg=w498-h711-v0

2289f688-1e9c-43fc-b6f9-e6e8a2463fbf

https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/notebooklm/AKXwDQHqySjvkjNTQpf5VGY37qmtLw5RmCQX20TtSmHiEUo7FqR4SjupOrqK0tRC4dUiCd-J8P16XbYCs79aPFizdsNjHm6fsV4I5r7kE9ko9D-AC3X9OZKnqpih0rxdPvTGXxc-JfPFDA=w498-h711-v0

4495d0fe-b49c-461b-852b-64dd08da6efb

·   Certification: CE, FCC, RoHS

·   Environment:     Operating Temperature: 0°C~40°C (32 °F~104 °F)     Storage Temperature: -40°C~60°C (-40 °F~140 °F)     Operating Humidity: 10%~90% RH     Storage Humidity: 5%~90% RH

·   Package Contents for Deco XE75 Pro (1-pack):     1 Deco XE75 Pro unit     1 RJ45 Ethernet cable     1 Power adapter     Quick Installation Guide

·   Package Contents for Deco XE75 Pro (2-pack):     2 Deco XE75 Pro units     1 RJ45 Ethernet cable     2 Power adapters     Quick Installation Guide

·   Package Contents for Deco XE75 Pro (3-pack):     3 Deco XE75 Pro units     1 RJ45 Ethernet cable     3 Power adapters     Quick Installation Guide

OthersHardware Wireless

·   Working Mode: Router, Access Point

·   WAN Type: Dynamic IP/Static IP/PPPoE/L2TP/PPTP

·   DHCP: Server

·   Protocols: Supports IPv4 and IPv6

·   Guest Network: 2.4 GHz Guest Network ×1; 5 GHz Guest Network ×1; 6 GHz Guest Network ×1

·   Features: TP-Link HomeShield, BSS Color△, OFDMA△, 1024-QAM△, MU-MIMO△, Optional Ethernet Backhaul, Assisted Setup, Address Reservation, Port Forwarding, TP-Link DDNS, IPTV, IPv6, Firewall Rules, LED Control

·   Management: Local Management; Remote Management; Multi-Managers

·   Wireless Standards: IEEE 802.11a/n/ac/ax 5 GHz,                                                              IEEE 802.11b/g/n/ax 2.4 GHz, Wi-Fi 6E Mesh

·   Mesh protocol: 802.11k/v/r

·   Frequency: 2.4 GHz, 5 GHz, and 6 GHz

·   Signal Rate: 2402 Mbps on 6 GHz + 2402 Mbps on 5 GHz + 574 Mbps on 2.4 GHz†

·   Transmit Power:  FCC: <30 dBm (2.4 GHz), <30 dBm (5 GHz), <30 dBm (6 GHz)

CE: <20 dBm (2.4 GHz), <23 dBm (5 GHz), <23 dBm (6 GHz)

·   Wireless Security: WPA/WPA2-PSK/WPA3 encryptions

Specifications

·   Ether net Port: 1× 2.5 Gpbs port + 2× Gigabit ports per Deco unit (WAN/LAN auto-sensing)

·   Button: 1 RESET button on the back

·   Antenna: 4 internal antennas

·   Power Consumption (with power adapter): 26 W max (US version);               20.7 W max (EU version);

·   Dimensions (W × D × H): 4.1 × 4.1 × 6.7 in (105 × 105 × 169 mm)

·   Power Adapter Input: 100-240 V ~ 50/60 Hz  0.8 A (US version);            100-240 V ~ 50/60 Hz  0.6 A (EU version)

·   Power Adapter Output: 12 V       2 A (US version); 12 V       1.5 A (EU version)

TP-Link  AXE5400 Tri-Band Mesh Wi-Fi 6E System  Deco XE75 Pro

2× Gigabit ports Advanced 2.5 Gbps port

Attention: This device may only be used indoors in Great Britain. Attention: This device may only be used indoors in all EU member states, EFTA countries and Northern Ireland. This device complies with part 15 of the FCC Rules. Operation is subject to the following two conditions: (1) This device may not cause harmful interference, and (2) this device must accept any interference received, including interference that may cause undesired operation. Specifications are subject to change without notice. TP-Link is a registered trademark of TP-Link Corporation Limited. Google, Google Home, and Google Play are trademarks of Google LLC. Other brands and product names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders. Copyright ©2022 TP-Link Corporation Limited. All rights reserved. †Maximum wireless signal rates are the physical rates derived from IEEE Standard 802.11 specifications. Actual wireless data throughput, wireless coverage, and quantity of connected devices are not guaranteed and will vary as a result of network conditions, client limitations, and environmental factors, including building materials, obstacles, volume and density of traffic, and client location. ‡Clients need to support 802.11k/v/r and may require additional setup. Performance may vary depending on the client device. △Use of Wi-Fi 6, Wi-Fi 6E, and other features including OFDMA, MU-MIMO, 1024-QAM, and BSS Color require clients to also support the corresponding features. The 160 MHz bandwidth may be unavailable in the 5 GHz band in some regions/countries due to regulatory restrictions. \*HomeShield includes the Free Basic Plan. Fees apply for the Pro Plan. Visit tp-link.com/homeshield for more information. \*\*Wi-Fi generations represent the wireless standard IEEE 802.11 a/b/g/n/ac/ax. §2.5 Gbps internet speeds require compatible service plans and equipment. 2.5 Gbps and 1 Gbps ports cannot be concurrently configured as WAN ports.

https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/notebooklm/AKXwDQFp891WzUkAtDwqCjwHVxB2TR7Ne-JrsNQzo0a28EhpBH7Z6kT0wPb3gWaVEVuQag6YXDmix4Dq3SkGpx9LZc2Wnfv9vzWALQ3rTlHGVaPEiI9f7NOKae-UNxc9B74y4SvAbXY5=w1280-h800-v0

0d69a542-9924-42ec-a9ce-140fd9ae97c2

